VIJAY JANAPA REDDI: Hi In this video, I want
to talk a little bit about the resources you need.
So you're well prepared for the entire program.
Starting with course 1, where we will be focused
on the fundamentals of machine learning, what you really need are quite simple.
You just need an internet connection in order to be able to watch your videos,
and you need a Chrome browser.
The Chrome browser is a specific requirement primarily because we will
be using a programming environment called Google Colab which is going
to rely on working well with Chrome.
So if you use Chrome, you will likely not have too many issues.
And so we strongly encourage you to use that browser.
Then, as we move on into the applications of TinyML,
we will need a little bit more than what we needed in course 1.
Specifically, we will need your laptop or your desktop
to have a microphone and a laptop camera.
Why do we need that?
Don't worry.
We're not trying to listen in on you, like we did
when we talked about responsible AI.
Why we need those devices are primarily because we want to engage with you.
We want to be able to get you to actually train
you own special word that wakes the machine up, for instance.
And in order to be able to do that, you're
going to want to collect a bit of data from the microphone
by saying different words, understanding how to say it in different ways,
so that your model is general and flexible enough,
or capture different kinds of images.
So we want you to be able to have access to a camera and a microphone.
Then, as we go into course 3, things will get even more fun,
because we'll be giving you a special kit.
And the kit needs you to physically interface the microcontroller
board with your laptop.
And so in addition to the things you need from course 2,
in course 3 we will be adding a couple of extra parts.
And together, you will be effectively building
on all the things you've learned as you step through the courses.
And with that, I want you to have a really good time,
and I want you to be prepared for this course.
So please make sure you have all the resources you need,
and I will see you in the next video.