VIJAY JANAPA REDDI: Welcome back from the video on TensorFlow.
Hopefully, what you have learned from the video
is that you have understood that TensorFlow is a critical software
piece of infrastructure that is needed, in order
to be able to train a machine learning model,
in order to be able to teach an algorithm,
to look for interesting patterns in data, and how we go about doing that.
We will be training models, specifically in the context of TinyML.
But as you might recall, from the earlier videos,
I told you the TensorFlow is big, bulky, and beefy.
Why?
Because it was originally designed for big computing systems.
But as we move into deploying things on small, little embedded
microcontrollers, what we need to do is to think about how
we make the system lean and mean.
And that's why TensorFlow Lite was developed.
TensorFlow Lite goes through a series of steps in taking that big model
and converting it down into a format that
is much smaller, much more compact, and much more
suitable for the endpoint devices.
In addition, it does optimizations like the ones
that I hinted, talking about pruning, and quantization, and so forth.
And then, finally, sets up the model, so that it's effectively
deployable on the edge, where you can actually do inferences.
Now, all of that is extremely important.
In fact, I would argue that if you want to learn about TinyML,
you should learn about how to train the model.
But of course, you also got to learn how to deploy
the model under the specific constraints of an embedded microcontroller.
So we will be stepping through how to use this TensorFlow stack properly,
the architecture, in order to train a model
and target a very specific microcontroller.
But one of the key things I'm going to make sure that I enforce to you
is that the lessons that you learn, as we
step through this process [INAUDIBLE] generalizable
so that you can actually change the microcontroller that we
might be looking at.
And then, still, all the things you have learned, in going from training,
to deployment, onto the microcontrollers is totally valid.
With that said, I hope you have gotten all the tools
that you need to know about.
And if there's any questions or any doubts,
feel free to just post them on the forum.
And I'm sure some one of us will be able to reply.
Or the vast community of your colleagues and students,
who are taking this class, will actually be able to help you out.
I'll see you soon.