VIJAY JANAPA REDDI: Hi, In this video, I'm
going to focus on how the overall course is structured in order to help you
maximize the value out of the program.
There are many different things that are going to help you learn,
starting from videos all the way down to the quizzes.
I'm going to step you through each one of these.
And I'm going to help you understand how to use them,
so that your learning is maximized.
First and foremost, you've got videos.
These are the lecture components of the course that are mainly focused
on introducing new concepts and topics.
Then, we supplement these videos with reading material.
These reading materials help you get a deeper perspective into topics
and they provide additional insights and examples.
We also want you to engage with one another,
so there are forums that will provide channels
as a means to interact with all the students that are taking the course.
And this will help foster critical discussions around thematic topics,
for example, around responsible AI.
Then there are Google Colabs.
These effectively are the hands on learning part where you will actually
be programming the machine learning components
and trying to understand how to solve some interesting tinyML challenges.
And we'll be doing this using Google's Colab.
Don't worry about Google Colab.
I'll talk about it later on, if you're not familiar with it.
Then there are assignments.
These assignments are going to challenge you
to put together all that you have learned
and apply your practical skills on tasks that you've
gone through with the Colabs for courses one and two.
And then in the third course, you will actually
be needed to physically put them onto a real device.
This is a real hands on part.
That's one of the things that's going to make this course quite unique for you.
Then you've got quizzes.
These are formative quizzes which will act as knowledge checks.
Think of these quizzes as things that enable
you to take a little breather from all that you've
gathered so far in a couple of videos, and then
reflect back on the critical nuggets.
So these quizzes are going to be helping you kind of figure
out what are the most important concepts that have been covered.
And then of course come the tests.
These tests are only meant for the people who
are pursuing the certificate program.
And they act as formal knowledge checks.
And these tests are going to be reflecting back
on the videos, the Colabs, the quizzes, the assignments, the readings,
the discussions.
So everything is going to be coming together in these tests.
And that's where we will be helping you reflect back
and gain confidence that you are in fact learning the material.
I hope you see that we have thought through the course very systematically.
And for every single aspect of the course, there are different mediums.
So you might be a learner who learns well from videos.
I might be a learner who learns well by reading material.
So we've tried to create a balance so that everybody
finds a medium that helps them learn the most in the most effective way.
With that, I'll see you in the next video.
Thank you.