VIJAY JANAPA REDDI: Welcome to TinyML.
Tiny machine learning, or TinyML, is an emerging field
that is at the intersection of machine learning and embedded systems.
An embedded system is a computing device that
usually is small, or tiny, like the one that I'm
holding in my hand, that operates with low power, extremely low power.
So much so that some of these devices can
run for days, weeks, months, sometimes even years
on something like a coin cell battery.
And TinyML is all about taking just a small, little computing device
and enabling it with machine learning smarts.
Now, what is machine learning?
Well, machine learning is a subfield within AI,
or artificial intelligence, that uses a lot of data
to infer interesting patterns about new data that it's seeing.
Together, the intersection of embedded systems and machine learning
is going to unlock a whole new world, and that's that world
that I'm going to introduce you to in this program.
I, for one, truly believe that TinyML has the potential
to transform the world that we live in.
And in this program, we're going to take you
through that journey of uncovering the possibilities
and learning how to enable those possibilities.
Who knows?
You might very well be building the next major industry, based on TinyML,
from the lessons that you have learned from this course.
Now, before I get started, allow me to introduce myself.
My name is Vijay Janapa Reddi, and I'm a faculty member at Harvard.
And I'm very excited to be teaching you everything
I know about this cutting-edge field.
Before we get started, let's level the playing field
and start with a crisp definition of what is TinyML.
Well, TinyML, or tiny machine learning, is a fast-growing field
of machine learning technologies and applications that
include algorithms, hardware, and software that
are capable of performing on-device sensor data analytics,
doing so at extremely low power, typically in the order of milliwatts,
so that we can enable always-on machine learning
use cases on battery-powered devices.
Now, that's a whole lot of words to crisply define what is TinyML.
I wanted you to have a strong definition,
but let me give you a more intuitive example.
How many of you have said, OK, Google?
What happens when you say that?
The machine wakes up and it knows to respond to you.
OK, fine.
You might have said, hey, Siri.
Same thing, the machine wakes up and responds back to you.
All right, all right, fine.
Perhaps you have said Alexa.
No matter what you have said, they all represent an important application
of what's in TinyML.
It's called keyword spotting or hotword detection.
Now, the key difference is that while they resemble
the application of TinyML, these devices are largely plugged into the wall,
or they require charging.
I'm talking about putting TinyML onto these tiny, tiny little processors that
are on this board and then forgetting about them.
There's no power being given to them outside of that little battery.
That's the difference between the applications that we're seeing today
and where we're going into the future.
Now, while this is an example application of TinyML,
let me talk about some of the more forward-looking examples.
Let's talk about autonomous drones, drones that are completely independent,
that operate fully by themselves.
Imagine autonomous drones that are able to do video surveillance in order
to keep us safe by figuring out what's a threat, what's normal, and so forth.
Or they might be able to venture really far out into places where humans cannot
go.
For instance, later on, we'll talk about how
drones are being used in the Amazon forest for preserving our wildlife.
So for instance, when the forests are deforested,
we actually can go in and autonomously plant new seeds
so that we can keep the forest growing.
Or we can talk about mobile robots, which
are extremely important in the service industry for taking
care of the elderly in the future.
Well, these mobile robots need to be moving around,
constantly sensing the information around them.
And machine learning is very good at that problem.
And we need to be able to pack in lots of sensors into these robots
and do so with extreme efficiency, so they can operate on battery power.
Or think about smart glasses, right?
These are passive in the sense that they don't proactively do anything.
But imagine smart glasses in the future.
Imagine a situation where you go out into the mall, or marketplace,
or you're at a party.
And how many times have you had to say, I'm sorry,
could you repeat that again, right?
Imagine if these glasses had contextual hearing.
In other words, they're able to see where you're glancing.
And then based on that, be able to pick up
the voice signals or the sound signals that are coming there
and then amplify them so that only the things that are in your context
will actually be richer.
That way, you have a better experience, right?
Or imagine, for instance, you're in a new country
and someone's talking to you in a language that you don't know.
And imagine your glasses are able to do real-time machine translation
and then be able to feed it into your brain.
These are some remarkable applications.
Or let's talk about TinyML in the medical area.
Here, I'm showing you Micra, which is from Medtronic.
It's the world's smallest pacemaker that goes into your heart.
It's small, it's non-invasive, and it's completely self-contained.
And if this device had machine learning in it,
it would be able to, perhaps, proactively tell you
how your heart's doing or be able to do things for you
so that you have a better, healthy life choice.
Or let's talk about what Elon Musk is doing,
where he's implanting chips inside the brain so that they can send
signals to understand brain activity.
By measuring the electrical signals that are emitted by neurons,
we might be able to learn things about our brain.
And in doing so, we might be able to cure diseases
like treat depression, insomnia, or any other disease.
Now, let me take a step back and remind you that technology is not always
about looking into the future.
Sometimes it is about what you can do here and now,
and I'm going to tell you that we can use TinyML to make this world a better
place.
We can use TinyML to take care wildlife.
We can use TinyML to improve the quality of our oceans
or take care of the icecaps, things that are critical to our survival.
We might also be able to use TinyML to take care of our forests.
Now, over the course of the program, I'm going
to introduce you to a variety of these different kinds of applications
where the fundamental technology that sits in the palm of my hand,
for instance, has the ability to actually have impact at a global level.
So let me be specific and give you an example.
Here, I'm talking about an ElephantEdge project.
There's a growing crisis in Africa right now
about diminishing elephant population.
So organizations are coming together in order to protect the gentle beast.
Now, if we're not careful, these elephants can be wiped out in 10 years,
so it's a very important thing.
So how do we help take care of the gentle giants?
Well, we need data.
We need lots of data.
So what if we could build some sort of intelligent device
like a smart collar that goes on these elephants that
is totally non-intrusive, does not harm them, but is there,
constantly sensing interesting signals so that we
can help them have a better life?
Let me be specific.
For instance, if we had a smart collar, we
might be able to do risk monitoring from poaching.
What if we could build machine learning models that
could be put onto small, little devices where
they were able to figure out if, for instance, the elephants were moving
into a high-risk area and then be able to send real-time notification to park
rangers to keep them safe?
The park rangers could then react to them
and to make sure that the elephants go away from that danger zone.
Or perhaps, we can do human conflict monitoring.
We could build intelligent machine learning
models that are able to sense and alert when elephants are heading into an area
where, for instance, farmers live.
So that they can proactively get out of the way
or do something in order to make sure that they're safe
and the animals are safe.
We might be able to do activity monitoring.
We might be able to learn things about the animals.
When are they swimming, drinking water, or sleeping, and so forth?
And by learning all these things, we might
be able to take better care of them.
We might also be able to do communication monitoring.
What we mean by that is that by sensing sound,
we might be able to understand how these animals are actually
communicating together.
But in order to do all of that, we need TinyML.
We need to be right there where the data is, where that information, those
sounds, those signals, where all of that is, so that we can do real-time machine
learning.
These are all remarkable applications of TinyML.
So what I'm trying to say is that when you think of TinyML,
don't just think about the future.
Think about the here and now, how this technology
that's potentially in your hand, right, has the ability to transform the world.
Now, how are we going to achieve all of this, right?
Those are some grand applications.
Well, that's why I'm here.
In this program where we have got three courses,
course 1 is all about talking about what is the language of machine learning?
That's what we're going to do in course 1.
In course 2, we're going to talk about what are the applications of TinyML?
We'll get a sneak peek into the variety of different applications,
understand how to leverage the sensors, and so forth.
In course 3, we're going to physically deploy the machine learning models
that we build into these small, little devices.
And in doing so, you will gain a lot of appreciation for the challenges
in enabling this capability.
But stick with me, and I promise you, by the time you finish this program,
you are going to be very proud.
You'll be one of the elite people coming out and saying, hey, I know TinyML.
I know how to program embedded microcontroller devices
with machine learning capabilities.
Now, how are we going to do this?
Well, there are three wonderful people who have come together,
myself included, of course.
We have brought multiple instructors together in order
to give you the best quality education.
In addition to me, there is Laurence Moroney
who is a vivid online teacher who has taught many courses online.
He comes from Google, and he'll give you a practical and hands-on introduction
to the foundations of machine learning, the first course.
He is brilliantly articulate and very engaging,
and you will have a lot of fun learning from him.
Then there is Pete Warden.
Pete is the man behind the scenes of TensorFlow Lite
Micro, the software that enables you to run
machine learning on embedded devices.
He and his team, which I've actually been fortunate to be a part of,
have worked tirelessly to enable this technology
and put that away on GitHub website, so that it's actually
publicly-available for free.
It's a remarkable achievement.
And Pete is also from Google, so it's Google and Harvard coming together
to give you the best education possible.
I'm going to be with you through all three courses.
Lawrence is going to be with you in course 1 and 2.
Pete is going to be with us in course 2 and 3.
Now, in addition to the instructors, there
have been some amazing people working behind the scenes.
Brian Plancher and Dhilan are the TAs who
have been putting a lot of the material together with us.
In addition to them, there are a remarkable number
of people who have been very supportive of having this course for you.
We will also be bringing in some specialized instructors who
will teach you things like about responsible machine learning.
How do you deploy AI into the field, but do so in a socially-responsible manner?
And what are the implications if we don't do that?
And how do we do that correctly?
So we want to give you a full, holistic experience
in enabling tiny machine learning.
With that, I want to say that the future of machine learning is tiny and bright,
and we're excited to see what you do.
I will see you in the next course.