VIJAY JANAPA REDDI: Welcome back.
In this video, I'm going to talk to you about who this course is aimed at,
as it is a very common question that I get from people.
When we designed this course, we wanted to make this course
so that it's broadly accessible.
We wanted you to be able to take this course,
no matter where you are, who you are, or how old you are.
TinyML is for everyone.
We want to empower each and every single one of you
with access to cutting edge education.
Now, let me be a bit more specific, and tell you
who this course might be really helpful for.
For starters, you might be a student.
You might be wanting to learn everything about ML.
You might be a student in high school, you might be a student in college,
or you might just be a lifelong learner.
Either way, we want to help you expand your knowledge of ML.
Now, if you're new to machine learning, this
is a great starting point for getting your feet wet with ML.
That said, if you know about ML, you will also learn something new.
Because we will be focused on tiny machine learning.
What are the aspects specifically important for deploying
machine learning on tiny devices?
I do want you to understand one thing, is that this
is an applied machine learning course.
In other words, we won't be getting caught up in theory and the math
behind a lot of machine learning.
There are a lot of wonderful courses out there, and we will point you to them.
But in this course, we're going to focus very much on the applied side
of deploying machine learning.
How do we engineer these systems?
Now, as a student, if you know about ML, you
are definitely going to expand your knowledge.
Now, if you don't know about ML, you are definitely going to learn about ML.
Now, the second cohort is practitioners.
Now, you might be a practitioner who is interested in building
a TinyML application, a product, a new innovation.
Well, if you want to be able to do that successfully,
you're going to need to learn a lot about cross-layer design that's
involved in TinyML.
Ranging from the applications to the run times to the hardware.
And in this course, we're going to expose you to that vertical stack.
And by the end of this program, you will not only have designed tiny models,
and learned the software stack that is needed for them,
but you would also have effectively deployed it on a tiny little computer.
So that would give you full coverage.
And therefore, I believe you will be able to build a TinyML
application by the end of this program.
Now, you might be an engineer working at a company.
And you might be thinking, hey, I want to hone my skills
as the industry is evolving.
Well, this course is definitely meant for you in that case.
You could be an ML engineer wanting to deploy TinyML
so that you can learn about new hardware that's coming out.
How do I take these big machine learning models and make them really small?
Well, you need to have a deep appreciation for the resource
constraints that these small little embedded devices tend to impose.
Or it might be the other way around.
You might be a hardware engineer wanting to gain exposure to machine learning.
And you want to understand what are the concepts,
and what does it mean to have a solution so that you can tackle the end
to end system challenges for TinyML?
We will be catering to both cohorts in this.
You can go from the top, down to the bottom, or start at the bottom
and work your way up.
To sum it up, we have effectively thought this course through so as
that we can reach a broad audience.
And my wish is to really empower each and every single one of you
with the possibility to advance your knowledge, advance your career,
and start building products that can change
the world, one tiny step at a time.
So you must be wondering, well, that all sounds good.
Now, how do we actually go about doing this?
Do I have all the chops and the know how so I can actually
keep up with the course materials?
Don't worry, we got your back.
Well, when we start off the course, we're
not going to make any assumptions about what level of machine
learning you have, or what level of embedded systems knowledge you have.
In Course 1 for instance, when we get into the fundamentals of TinyML,
we're going to focus very much on just having the basic skills of scripting.
You've got to be able to program in Python.
Nothing too advanced, as programming is one
of those things you can pick up on the fly,
but you've got to know basic scripting.
As we go into Course 2, where we will be focused on the applications of TinyML,
we will be using a lot of what you know about Python
and building applications in a Google Colab environment.
I'll talk about Colab much more later on.
But for now, think of it as some sort of web page
where you go to write your Python code.
That's about it.
Finally, when we go into Course 3, this is where things change a little bit.
You will continue to program in Python, but you will also need a little bit
of C and C++ programming background.
Nothing overly complicated like virtual functions and so forth.
Quite simple, you know, like C and C++.
And when things get tough, we'll be there to kind of help
you nudge along the way,
One other thing that we'll be introducing in the final course
is that, because we will physically be programming the microcontroller,
you're going to need to use an IDE.
And so, that's an Interactive Developer Environment,
and we're going to provide you an IDE that allows you
to program that microcontroller device.
Don't sweat about it.
I'm just trying to give you a big picture overview of what to expect over
the course of the entire program.
With that, you will be able to finish this program,
and you will be one of the unique people who can
claim that you're a TinyML specialist.
And I'll look forward to seeing you the next time.