VIJAY JANAPA REDDI: Welcome back.
I'm glad you had an introduction to Colab.
Now in this video, what I want to talk a little bit about
is how we will be using Colab in order for learning tiny machine learning.
Well, first and foremost, we will be doing
a code walkthrough of algorithms and different kinds of concepts
using Colab.
For example, we will be looking at a small snippet
of algorithmic code for the machine learning model,
and we will learn how to tweak it in Colab.
And then, there will be quizzes and assessments
that will help you kind of internalize those critical concepts by having
you fill in some of the blanks that are out there.
In addition, because we will be using the TensorFlow framework through Colab,
one of the critical things that we will be doing
is we will be using the power of the cloud
in order to train our neural network sufficiently.
If you tried to teach the machine learning models
to look for interesting data patterns manually on your laptop is what exactly
I mean.
If you try and do that, there will be cases where you
might have to wait for a month or more.
Instead, if we use the capabilities that Google Colab gives us in order
to train our networks much faster, then we
will be able to accelerate the whole learning
process by using GPUs for instance.
And that's going to save you a lot of time.
Trust me, there are assignments in this program that will sometimes need
about 13 hours or so in order to train.
But don't worry about that.
We won't have you sitting in front of the screen for 13 hours.
We have found ways to kind of improve that experience.
Another way that we will be using Google Colab
is to help you analyze the way that the algorithms are actually learning.
So we will be visualizing interesting characteristics
about the machine learning training that is actually happening.
And in doing so, you will understand what
are some of the critical implications of the way you set some hyper
parameters, like learning rate, for instance,
or what's the impact of the loss function?
These are things that we will be getting into in the next chapter.
So with that said, I hope you got a little bit of information
about Google Colab.
And once you start using it, I promise you,
you will feel much more comfortable.
And I'll look forward to seeing you soon.